hi everyone this is just a brief video
to bring your attention to a recent
article on scientific Americans website
discussing pathological narcissism and
NPD the article is titled what is
narcissism science confronts a widely
misunderstood phenomenon and a couple of
things are notable about this article
first it features Jacob Skidmore over at
the nameless narcissist Channel and also
Tessa from the spirit narc Channel both
of these individuals identify as
self-aware narcissists who are working
to spread helpful humanizing information
about this form of mental illness and I
applaud both of their efforts the other
thing about this article that was
notable is just how much it gets right
about pathological narcissism and NPD
it correctly identifies both the
grandiose and vulnerable facets of this
disorder it accurately describes the
diagnostic controversies surrounding NPD
it focuses on the work of two prominent
researchers in the field Elsa running
Sam and Aaron Pincus Aaron Pincus was
the one who developed the pathological
narcissism inventory and I've referenced
each of them and their works on this
channel
one thing that I was particularly
impressed with and this is a small but
important detail in the original Greek
myth of narcissus he wasn't in love with
himself he was in love with the image of
himself that he saw reflected in the
water but that he believed was another
being and this is a small detail but it
makes a world of difference in how the
myth of narcissus is interpreted and
also has bearing on how we conceptualize
the disorder that bears his name
NPD is not about self-love it's about
the pursuit of an idealized image and
feelings of emptiness and despair when
that image is unattainable
the article also correctly notes that
vulnerable phases of NPD are often
associated with self-harm and even
suicide
it discusses the possible genetic and
developmental origins of pathological
narcissism and NPD noting that it's a
partially heritable disorder and also
describing the common histories that
many narcissistic patients report of
emotional neglect cold or callous
treatment from caregivers and
overvaluation for what they could do
rather than for who they were on the
inside long story short this is a rare
article on NPD meant for public
consumption that gets it right it
presents the human face of pathological
narcissism it presents its complicated
history in the fields of psychology and
Psychiatry it describes the current
Diagnostic and theoretical controversies
surrounding this disorder and it also
touches on the growing consensus among
clinicians and researchers alike that
vulnerability is actually at the core of
pathological narcissism
so follow the link in the description
and check it out and until next time
take good care
[Music]
foreign